Notes on mistakes made in Web Design http://www.nngroup.com/

Bad Search - keep it simple the search box is what people are looking for and when queries are put in they should display "best bets" to help the user select the item to search regardless of spelling and typos
PDF Files for Online Reading - PDF is not set up for on-line reading and are hard to navigate. Good for printing. But bad for scrolling and layouts are not optimized.
Not Changing the color of visited links - "A good grasp of past navigation helps you understand our current location, since it's the culmination of your journey." If you are aware you've already been there then you know if you want to go again.
Non-Scannable text - Write of online not for putting it in print
subheads
bulleted lists
highlighted keywords
short paragraphs
the inverted pyramid
a simple writing style, and
de-fluffed language devoid of marketese Eyetracking for Reading Patterns show that users often read Web pages in an F-shaped pattern: two horizontal stripes followed by a vertical stripe.
Fixed Font Size - Set CSS font sizes in relative terms and not in an absolute number of pixels so users can resize text as needed
Page Titles with low Searh Engine Visibility - The tag is almost always used for clickable headline for search - Don't use words like "The" or "Welcome". Have the Homepage give the specifics of what the user will find on the page. Don't have page titles be the same or it will severely reduce the usability - make them distinct. Taglines (explain what the company does and why it's unique from competitors - Ask the questions "Would it work just as well for competitors?" "Would any company ever claim the opposite?") Taglines need to be short and quickly communicate the purpose of the website.</li> <li> Anything that looks like an Advertisment - Savy users have learned to ignore advertising and anything that looks like it. Avoid designs that look like advertisement and follow these rules:</li> <li> Banner Blindness - users don't fixate their eyes on anything that looks like a banner</li> <li> Animation Avoidance - users ignore areas of blinking or flashing text or other aggressive animations</li> <li> Pop-up purges - users close pop-up windows before they have fully rendered</li> <li>Violating Design Conventions - CONSISTENCY is a powerful usability principle so user will know what to expect. If users expectations are as expected then they will feel more in control of the system. "Jakob's law of web user experience: Users spend most of their time on OTHER websites" Meaning that they form their expectation based on experience done on other sites. If you deviate then your site will be harder to use and users will leave.</li> <li>Opening New Browser Windows - Don't pollute the users screen with more windows. Also implies that the website is taking over the user's machine. This strategy is self-defeating since it disables the back button. If links don't behave as expected undermines the users' understanding of their own system.</li> <li>Not Answering User's Questions - Users are goal driven and visit sites because that want something so if it's not supplied then the website is a failure. The worse example is not listing the price.</li> </ol>

